My name is David Mayer and I've been going to gigs in Newport since 1965.
In 1985 I became the agent for Newport West and prospective MP Paul Flynn.
Around that time the Red Wedge group had set up.
It included the Commonards, Style Council, Paul Weller, Billy Bragg, as well as loads
of other top bands of the period.
The Labour Party in London sent us a Red Wedge pack to encourage local action among young
voters.
Newport West was only formed in 1983 and at that election the Tories won by about 500
So we were a target seat for the 1987 election.
We heard that Billy Bragg was interested in playing Newport so we arranged a gig at Cullion
College.
We also organised a day of events on Saturday 1st February at the Newport Centre, which
mostly music related things such as guitar and drum lessons, songwriting, poetry etc.
A few weeks earlier Paul Flynn and I actually gate crashed the green room of the Commonards
gig at Newport Centre so that we could put flyers on the seats for the Billy Bragg events.
I designed the posters and flyers using the Red Wedge promotional material they sent.
I introduced Paul to Jimmy Somerville who seemed a bit distant as did all the band,
probably psyched up for the performance or maybe they had an argument.
Paul had no idea who Jimmy Somerville was of course, being from a different generation.
We distributed the flyers and watched the opening songs but it was too loud and alien
for Paul unfortunately so we left.
On Friday 31st January 1986 Billy played the main hall at Cullion College, then a teaching
college.
The hall was rammed.
Billy was supported by legendary local band The Abs and a band called Atacco di Centi,
an interesting percussive orientated band from Brighton that Billy endorsed around that
time.
About half way through Billy's performance some drunk Tory hecklers started shouting
abuse and a scuffle broke out.
Billy stopped playing and asked the audience to resolve it peacefully.
He said, if you hold your hands out, palms facing up, you can direct the troublemakers
out of the fire doors.
This happened.
It was unbelievable.
The three Tories were guided towards the side doors and out.
There was nothing they could do to resist.
I've never seen anything like it.
I don't think Billy had, although he may have heard of it.
I had a great view of all this happening from the balcony on the left of the stage.
Afterwards Billy thanked me for organising the gig and was clearly buzzing from the performance
and the ejection of the troublemakers.
He had heard about this being done but had never seen it himself.
He held both of my hands and would not let go.
I said I have to leave as I am giving a lift to one of the young party members to Pontypool.
It took about five minutes to break away.
I didn't know it at the time but in the audience was someone who would become one of my closest
friends, Jane Mudd, now leader of the council, who blagged her way on stage at one point.
The next time I met Billy Bragg was at the Bevan Institute 60th birthday celebration for the NHS
in July 2008 at the Senedd.
I also designed the brochure and badge for this event and helped organise the front of house.
After his performance there I asked him if he remembered the night at Cleon
and he looked at me bemused.
I described the event with the Tories but he said he could not remember
a thing which I guess after 30 years of touring well.